From where? 
Why is it so vague? 
What’s the Brundtland Report? 
What’s the origin of this report?

-

The Brundtland Report (aka "Our Common Future") came out in 1987 from the so called Brundtland Commission, also known as the World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED), which was put up by the United Nations with the mission of making countries cooperate to pursue sustainable development. The need of creating an organization with the sole scope of raising awareness of the matter came from the fact that, while already developed countries were starting to worry about the environmental impact of their growth, developing countries were looking mostly for the cheapest way to grow, even if that would have meant hurting the environment. In such conditions, this new organization aimed to create an international community that could address the problem of harmonizing prosperity with ecology; in fact promoting worldwide economic growth was in great conflict with preventing ecological degradation from happening on global scale.

A new idea of development was then to be formed, along with a new way of thinking of economic growth that isn't conceptually separated from social and environmental wealth. The term sustainable development was then defined, meaning a guiding principle for sustaining limited resources necessary to ensure the integrity and the stability of future generations on the planet. Quoting the official definition: "development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs". What's really important to point out is that, while taking into account the possibility of joining economic development and environmental protection together, the focus was in the meantime on granting human development, such as education, public health, standard of living and a special stress was put consequently on the importance of granting the future generations the possibility to use and improve resources that could otherwise be depleted by current ones, without a strong global effort in maintaining such capital. It was then of the uttermost important to finally discuss the environment and development as one single issue, which thing was the goal of the Brundtland report.

The Brundtland report is actually officially called "Our Common Future", the document was the result of 900 days of interactions between international exponents from the scientific world, experts, research institutes, non-governmental organizations, senior government representatives and everything was held at public hearings throughout the whole world. The main objectives of the Commission were: study and reconsider critical issues and formulate innovative and concrete proposals to deal with them; ensure and enforce international cooperation on the matter and actively push towards a much needed change in current collaboration policies; raise awareness and understanding in both individuals, organizations and governments, so that it could be possible to work together in order to achieve the expected results. In fact it was plain and evident that such a big issue could be faced and solved only with the participation of every party involved in a phenomenon that stretches from energy problems to loss of species and genetic resources, from industry in general to human settlements.

Critics have been received by this report, especially for its vague way of expressing concepts; in fact, it has been argued that the famous definition of sustainable development given in that instance is better a slogan than it is a basis for theory and has resulted in lots of parties using such term for attempting to capturing attention of the public without actually knowing or considering the complexity of the whole debate. On one hand, environmentalists use it to put the accent on considering environmental issues while planning, without treating explicitly political economy; on the other hand, politicians and theorists have started hiding themselves behind the concept sustainable development to gather consent suggesting radical reform, forgetting to specify what needs to change or expressing specific viable courses of action. In summary, the indefinite definition results in a vague concept meaning different things to different people. Several definitions have been given by other parties, like: "the expansion of the substantive freedoms of people today while making reasonable efforts to avoid seriously compromising those of future generations" (UNDP, 2011, p.18) which didn't actually solve the problem because of it is difficult to interpret equally what "reasonable efforts" are. Anyways, the concept it's so broad and wide that it's unlikely that a good and short denotation of it could be formed without using words that make it sound more like a principle that a guideline.